Headline: Dealmakers Are Losing Ground as Hopes of Trump Rally Fade Fast
Author: Fareed Sahloul and Lisa Abramowicz
Published At: 2025-03-05T13:00:09.025Z
Url: https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2025-03-05/dealmakers-are-losing-ground-as-hopes-of-trump-rally-fade-fast
Content: 
The worst enemy of a booming market for mergers and acquisitions has always been uncertainty. That’s a problem for dealmakers, who were expecting a banner year under Donald Trump but have instead crashed into the harsh reality of the US president’s market-rattling trade wars and geopolitical clashes.
Little more than $470 billion in global transactions have been announced so far in 2025, down about 17% from the same period last year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It doesn’t bode well for the rest of the year: not once in the past two decades has dealmaking rebounded from a negative first quarter to beat the previous year’s tally, the data show.
“There is a new normal of irrationality and I do not think that will be helpful to our economy,” said Robert Rubin, who was US Treasury Secretary during the Clinton administration, at Bloomberg Invest on Tuesday. Rubin, now counselor at investment bank Centerview Partners, said Trump’s economic policies have stoked the “greatest uncertainty” in his six-decade career.
Deal-hungry companies and their advisers had initially predicted that Trump’s policies would create better conditions for buying and selling, supercharging an M&A market that just got back on its feet after a lull. Instead, high tariffs against countries including neighbors Canada and Mexico, as well as tensions with Ukraine on how to move toward peace with Russia, have spooked markets and kept dealmakers in wait and see mode.
Federal Reserve Bank of New York President John Williams said Tuesday he expects tariffs to contribute to inflation, and policymakers have predicted fewer interest rate reductions this year. Private equity firms, whose activity is key to a healthy M&A market, are already under pressure.
“Companies are being forced to now contemplate variables that historically we haven’t contemplated,” Raymond McGuire, president at advisory firm Lazard Inc., said during an interview at Bloomberg Invest. “The randomness that appears to be at play here is not one that give boards and CEOs a lot of confidence.”
A recent survey of dealmakers by Gladstone Place Partners, published ahead of the annual gathering of M&A practitioners at Tulane University’s Corporate Law Institute in New Orleans this week, found that 63% see the Trump administration as the macro factor that will have the biggest impact on M&A in 2025. Rubin said on Tuesday that Trump’s tariff policies would adversely affect inflation, growth and productivity.
Despite stock markets erasing the initial post-election gains, Trump’s America-first agenda is triggering certain types of deals. On Tuesday, a BlackRock Inc.-led consortium agreed to buy control of key ports near the Panama Canal from Hong Kong-based conglomerate CK Hutchison Holdings Ltd. after pressure from the White House to limit Chinese influence in the region.
Other large transactions have been struck this year, such as Constellation Energy Corp.’s agreement to acquire Calpine Corp. and J&J’s planned purchase of Intra-Cellular Therapies Inc., which were both announced in early January. There have also been signs a more energetic M&A market emerging in Europe, where a flurry of multibillion-dollar deals have been announced in recent weeks. 
McGuire said at Bloomberg Invest that there remained trillions of dollars in capital to be deployed and that companies would eventually have to put this to work to continue to grow. 
“We will pause for a while as we understand and interpret the implications of the tariff dynamics. Once we get to a new normal, then at some point we will reengage,” McGuire said. “Will that be at the level we have engaged historically? Unclear.”European Dealmakers Spring Into ActionM&A Is Running Late to Its Own PartyPrivate Equity Adjusts to Reality of Trump 2.0Activists Create a Breakup Buzz in M&A Land