Headline: Oil Slides as Tariff Uncertainty and OPEC+ Hike Sour Outlook
Author: Nicholas Lua and Alex Longley
Published At: 2025-03-04T23:34:08.991Z
Url: https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2025-03-04/latest-oil-market-news-and-analysis-for-march-5
Content: 
Oil extended losses after US Commerce Secretary Howard Lutnick said the Trump administration could walk back some tariffs on Mexico and Canada, injecting more uncertainty into global markets.
West Texas Intermediate slipped below $67 a barrel after falling 3% over the past three sessions, while Brent was near $70. Lutnick said in a Bloomberg Television interview that the president might consider some tariff relief, with a decision expected this afternoon.
Trump’s trade measures threaten to redraw global oil flows, depending on their final makeup and duration. Mexican crude may be redirected to regions such as Asia, tariff-free Latin American grades might head to the US in greater quantities, and US East Coast fuel buyers will need to turn to Europe.
Crude has trended lower since mid-January as Trump’s policies raise fears of trade wars on multiple fronts, potentially hitting energy demand. Oil options traders are the most bearish in five months amid concerns about the fallout from tariffs and OPEC+’s plans to revive halted production, while volumes of bearish put contracts surged Tuesday.
“Trump acknowledges that there will be an adjustment period for the tariffs,” said Arne Lohmann Rasmussen, chief analyst at A/S Global Risk Management. “This points to continued volatility and uncertainty in the economy and in financial markets over the coming months.”
Read More: Ontario to Impose 25% Export Tax on Power to Three US States
Elsewhere, China set its economic growth goal at about 5% for 2025, raising expectations for officials to unleash more stimulus. Premier Li Qiang announced the target as he delivered the government’s annual work report to the national parliament in Beijing.
To get Bloomberg’s Energy Daily newsletter in your inbox, click hereWTI for April delivery was down 2.0% at $66.91 a barrel at 1:42 p.m. in London.Brent for May delivery slid 1.5% to $69.94 a barrel.Russia Flagship Oil Freight Soars After Biden Farewell SanctionsTrump Seeks US Shipbuilding Revival to Counter China DominanceChevron Given 30 Days to Shut as Trump Squeezes VenezuelaMiddle East Oil Plunges as Rising OPEC+ Supplies Rattle Market