Headline: Short-Dated Treasuries Rise as Traders Eye Even Bigger Rally
Author: Edward Bolingbroke and Michael Mackenzie
Published At: 2025-03-04T21:55:15.963Z
Url: https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2025-03-04/treasury-options-traders-target-bigger-bond-rally-ahead
Content: 
Short-maturity Treasuries rose ahead of a slew of reports on the health of the US economy as traders wager that mounting worries over the impact of trade tariffs will help extend this year’s almost 3% rally.
Yields on two-year notes — those most sensitive to interest rates — fell 3 basis points as of 8:04 a.m. in New York, while those with longer maturities inched higher. Rates on 10-year Treasuries are now roughly 25 basis points away from sliding through the key 4% level.
Driving those moves has been investors’ increasing certainty that President Donald Trump’s tariff war will rattle the US economy. Speaking to Congress on Tuesday, Trump sought to cast levies as causing just a “little disturbance,” and castigated government waste as he endorsed spending cuts. 
Economic data on Wednesday will give traders crucial insight into private payrolls, factory orders and services activity, ahead of a broader jobs report on Friday. Commerce Secretary Howard Lutnick could also give more detail on the outlook for tariffs after saying on Tuesday that Trump may yet offer a pathway for Mexico and Canada to get relief.
“For the first time in this process, the market has realized the golden goose is being taken away,” said George Goncalves, head of US macro strategy at MUFG. “The US is not unique as government spending is getting cut back and there is less of a wealth effect with US equities falling. Short term pain for a long term gain is the Trump agenda.”
A survey of JPMorgan clients published Tuesday showed wagers on further gains — so-called net bullish positions — are at their highest level in 15 years. Large block trades betting on the benchmark 10-year yield falling below 4% are proliferating, while demand for options to hedge against further price increases is on the rise. 
Traders have also added to expectations for interest-rate cuts by the Federal Reserve in recent days. Anticipation of weaker growth tends to drag Treasury yields lower and push up bond prices, as investors hurry to price in the rate cuts that a slowing economy typically brings.
“The market continues to be spooked by the potential of lower growth,” Citi strategist David Bieber wrote. “Tactical positioning is now one-sided long and deeply in profit.”