Headline: Trump Takes a Sledgehammer to Biden's Chips Act
Author: Mackenzie Hawkins
Published At: 2025-03-05T13:07:55.175Z
Url: https://www.bloomberg.com/news/newsletters/2025-03-05/trump-takes-a-sledgehammer-to-biden-s-chips-act
Content: 
  Welcome to Tech In Depth, our revamped daily newsletter with reporting and analysis about the business of tech from Bloomberg’s journalists around the world. Today, Mackenzie Hawkins reacts to Donald Trump’s proclamations about rescinding chipmaking incentives for factories being built in the US.Tech Across the Globe
New iPads: Apple introduced a new iPad Air and an upgraded low-end tablet, trying to capitalize on the renewed popularity of the products while sales of the iPhone slump.
French satellites: Eutelsat Communications SA shares jumped this week. Investors bet the French satellite provider will gain a portion of the increased defense spending pledged by the EU in the wake of the US withdrawal of military support for Ukraine.
Tencent on top: Tencent stepped up the competition for artificial intelligence tools in China when its Yuanbao chatbot passed DeepSeek — for just a day — to become the country’s most-downloaded iPhone app.Revalued
Aescape, the maker of an AI-powered massage robot, raised $83 million in a new funding round that valued it at $250 million. The company has 40 robot massage tables on the market, including some at Equinox gyms, and plans to ship 400 more this year.A matter of trust
A day after welcoming Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co. CEO C.C. Wei to the White House and touting $100 billion in new US investment from the company, President Donald Trump told Congress to repeal the grant program supporting such projects. Tariffs, he argued, would be incentive enough.
TSMC executives would be forgiven for feeling a sense of whiplash, after studiously negotiating a $6.6 billion grant with the Biden administration, upon hearing that the marquee Chips and Science Act is on the chopping block.
More than five years earlier, Trump’s first administration identified the heavy concentration of global semiconductor manufacturing in Asia — and specifically Taiwan — as a national security risk. Officials lobbied the leading chipmaker to build a factory in Arizona — at the time, a $12 billion investment — and began sketching out what became the country’s most significant foray into industrial policy since World War II.
This week, in under 36 hours, Trump oversaw the firing of 40 officials in charge of Chips Act grant funding; announced that TSMC would spend a total $165 billion in the US, more than double its prior commitment; and said that “we’re not giving them any money.”
Read More: Trump Calls for End to $52 Billion Chips Act Subsidy Program
What that could mean in practice is, to say the least, complex. Trump may have been referring to government support for TSMC’s latest pledge, which he said was a response to his threat of tariffs on foreign-made semiconductors. The chipmaker, which already promised three factories in Arizona, committed to another three facilities, plus an R&D site and plants for advanced packaging (something President Joe Biden’s administration pushed for but failed to secure).
But the number Trump used was $165 billion, which includes the massive sum TSMC already agreed to spend — with Chips Act support. And lest there be any confusion about Trump’s feelings on the Chips Act, he told Speaker Mike Johnson to “get rid” of it.
TSMC is one of 20 companies that secured legally binding awards under the bipartisan law, which set aside $39 billion in grants — plus loans and 25% tax breaks — to revitalize American semiconductor manufacturing, as well as $11 billion for chip research and development. The initiative has prompted well over $400 billion in promised investments, many of which are explicitly contingent on government support. Trump claimed Tuesday that Chips Act winners “take our money and they don’t spend it.” That is demonstrably false.
Chips Act money is designed as a reimbursement, in most cases for around 10-15% of companies’ expenditures. Firms like TSMC, Intel Corp. or Samsung Electronics Co. have to prove to the government that they’ve met negotiated benchmarks on their projects, and then — only then — will they receive tranches of their awards.
To put some numbers on it: Biden officials signed contracts representing over 85% of the grant money before leaving office, but only doled out around 11%. Factories take time to build.
Getting “rid” of that funding would be no simple task. TSMC, for example, has received $1.5 billion based on benchmarks already met, and is expecting another significant disbursement soon. Chips Act contracts include the ability for government officials to claw money back — but only if companies don’t hold up their end of the bargain, and TSMC’s site is performing exceptionally well.
Commerce Secretary Howard Lutnick has been asking questions about clawback authorities, we’ve reported, but he’s expressed no explicit intent to use them. To the contrary, he’s committed to “rigorously enforcing documents that have been signed” for money that’s already been disbursed.
Perhaps Trump wants the Chips Act office to not spend any more money, on TSMC’s award or anyone else’s. After all, he told Johnson to use “whatever is left over” to do something like reduce the debt. That would fit with Trump’s attempted January funding freeze, under which Chips Act disbursements almost stopped, then didn’t, then actually briefly stopped, then started again.
But Congress has already appropriated the full $39 billion in Chips Act grant funds through fiscal year 2026, and the president is legally obligated to spend that cash. To scrap it would require lawmakers to rescind a bipartisan, national-security-focused law they passed less than three years ago — one that’s already borne fruit in states red and blue (but especially red).
So maybe this all takes the form of slow-walking disbursement, allowing Lutnick to review contracts, remove things like environmental and labor requirements, and claim a “win” for the administration. Any delay would be bad news for companies that have already spent significant sums and are legally owed a partial reimbursement. But as long as "not now" doesn't morph into "never," the industry would be getting the treatment it's long been expecting.
And behind the scenes, Lutnick has been at least somewhat cooperative. When Chips Act officials urged him not to fire staff responsible for negotiating deals and managing disbursement, he listened. He’s also privately expressed support for the law, which he called an “excellent down payment” during his confirmation hearing.
Of all the unanswered questions, one of the biggest is what this means for US industrial policy writ large. Trump claims tariffs are better than grants, and he did indeed secure more from TSMC than Biden’s administration managed. GlobalWafers Co. said that if the Chips Act changes, it would reevaluate its plans based on potential import duties — and on market demand. Demand is, of course, the primary driver. Firms will finish factories when (or if) they have customers to justify them.
What would certainly be lost, though, is the belief among businesses that the US government negotiates in good faith. Months ago, I asked the man who ran the chips program under Biden about political risks to the effort. His answer: The program’s success has been built on companies’ trust. Quoted“Woolly Mouse is really proving that our targeted approach to precision editing based on very deep computational analysis works.”Ben LammCEO and co-founder, Colossal BiosciencesThe startup is trying to bring the prehistoric mammoth back from extinction. Its first step: the Woolly Mouse.ReadThe day’s most read story in tech and entertainment
Facebook, Tinder and Airbnb are being used by sex traffickers in Colombia to exploit young girls. The social apps help recruit and lure girls into sex while Airbnb rentals serve as private settings for clandestine meetings. While authorities are focusing on the issue, the scourge threatens to undermine Colombia’s efforts to remake itself after decades as a drug cartel haven.Moved19.7 million The number of viewers for Sunday’s Academy Awards broadcast on Disney’s ABC and streaming platform Hulu, a 1% increase from a year ago. The show fell to a low of 10.4 million viewers in 2021 during the pandemic.AV Club
Mitchell Green, founder and managing partner of Lead Edge Capital, joins Bloomberg Technology to discuss China’s efforts in AI and its competition with the US.More from Bloomberg
Get Tech In Depth and more Bloomberg Tech newsletters in your inbox:Cyber Bulletin for coverage of the shadow world of hackers and cyber-espionageGame On for diving deep inside the video game businessPower On for Apple scoops, consumer tech news and moreScreentime for a front-row seat to the collision of Hollywood and Silicon ValleySoundbite for reporting on podcasting, the music industry and audio trendsQ&AI for answers to all your questions about AI